---
title: Introduction to underscore in python 
date: 2020-12-11 10:46:01
tags:
---
<a name="underline"/>

In the page, I will discuss five underscores' pattern and how they influence python program.
- single leading underscore: _var
- single end underscore: var_
- double leading underscore: __var
- double leading and end underscores: \__var__
- single underscore: _

### Single and double underscores

Single and double underscores have some special meanings in python. Some meanings are for convention and are regarded as reminders to programmer, while some are strictly enforced. 

#### single leading underscore: _var
When it comes to variable and method names, single leading underscore has a conventional meaning. It is a reminder to programmer, whose meaning is variable and method starting with single underscore are for internal use only. 

However, when you try to call or access the variable or method with single leading underscore, python will not prevent your behavior. It is worth noting that it can't import method with single leading underscore if you import it by using '*' unless you use \__all__ to define it.

#### single end underscore: var_
When a name is occupied by other variable, you can add signle end underscore : var_ to solve this conflict.

#### double leading underscore(leading dunders): \__var
So far, the meaning of the naming patterns we have involved comes from consenus reached already. But for double leading underscore, there are something special which is from python syntax named 'name mangling'. The 'name mangling' means that the interpreter will modify its name to avoid conflicts with other variable name in children class.

Let take a small example to illustrate this.
```python
class Test:
    def __init__(self):
        self.foo = 1
        self.__baz = 23
t = Test()
dir(t)
```
Then we will get result 
```
['_Test__baz']
```
Once you use double leading underscore, the children class can not modify the attribute.

```python
class ExtendedTest(Test):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.__baz = 'override'
```
If you call ExtendedTest().__baz, it will raise an AttributeError which means that class ExtendedTest does not have attribute '\__baz'. And you can call ExtendedTest()._ExtendedTest__baz to access it.

**Double leading underscore can be also applied to method except attribute.**

#### Double leading and end underscore
This is a magic method in python. For example '\__init\__','\__all__','\__call__'. The advice here is not to use it.


#### Single underscore '\_'
Single underscore is used to represent some unless variables or temporary variables. It is often applied in unpacking operation.

It is worth mentoning that the meaning is generated by convention not python syntax.