---
title: "A Low-Rank ADMM Splitting Approach for Semidefinite Programming"
collection: publications
category: preprint
date: 2024-05-01
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.09133'
---

We introduce a new first-order method for solving general semidefinite programming problems, based on
the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) and a matrix-splitting technique. Our algorithm
has an advantage over the Burer-Monteiro approach as it only involves much easier quadratically regularized
subproblems in each iteration. For a linear objective, the subproblems are well-conditioned quadratic programs that can be efficiently solved by the standard conjugate gradient method. We show that the ADMM
algorithm achieves sublinear or linear convergence rates to the KKT solutions under different conditions.
Building on this theoretical development, we present LoRADS, a new solver for linear SDP based on the
Low-Rank ADMM Splitting approach. LoRADS incorporates several strategies that significantly increase
its efficiency. Firstly, it initiates with a warm-start phase that uses the Burer-Monteiro approach. Moreover,
motivated by the SDP low-rank theory [So et al., 2008], LoRADS chooses an initial rank of logarithmic order
and then employs a dynamic approach to increase the rank. Numerical experiments indicate that LoRADS
exhibits promising performance on various SDP problems. A noteworthy achievement of LoRADS is its
successful solving of a matrix completion problem with 15, 694, 167 constraints and a matrix variable of size
40, 000 × 40, 000 in 351 seconds.